Hello and welcome to this Python tutorial.
So how did the homework go?
Did you manage to compute the tested loss?
And if so, did you manage to get one below one star?
That's what we are about to figure out
in this tutorial, and you're gonna see
if you got the logic right, because
in this logic there is one crucial thing to understand,
which I'm gonna highlight in one or two minutes.
So, before getting to that crucial thing to understand,
the first thing to understand of course,
is that we will not need a double for loop here
because we don't need 200 epochs
to measure the tested performance
to measure the tested loss.
We of course need one epoch
because we're gonna measure the global loss, one time.
And therefore, we only need this for loop here
because this for loop loops over all the users
of the data set.
So the first thing that we're gonna do to be efficient
is to copy this whole part of the code here
inside this first for loop over the epochs.
So let's do this, that's gonna be our first step.
So I'm copying this, and of course then
we will adapt the code to the test set.
So copying that here, and now, what we'll do is
look at each line of code one by one,
and see what we need to change, or remove.
So here we go.
First line, well, this introduces the loss,
but that was for the training set before,
so of course we're gonna call it test loss
because this time we are measuring the test loss.
So we initialize it to zero as well and then you know
we'll add the different errors between the real ratings,
and the breakthrough ratings.
Then s, remember s is for the number of users that rated
at least one movie, so we keep this s,
we will still need it, because we're gonna
measure the loss the same way as we did
for the training set.
So that's okay, and then we start the for loop,
but the for loop over all the users of the data set.
So here that's still the same,
we loop over all the observations of our data set
because each observation corresponds to a user,
and then we go inside the for loop.
That's this line here.
And we start by taking the input.
And now here comes the crucial question.
If you get the correct answer to the question
I'm about to ask, that means that you understand
what's going on.
You understand the main point.
So, the question is, Right now we're measuring the
test set loss, so when we take the input here,
do we need to keep the training set here, or replace
this training set here by test set?
So, that's the question, and the answer is,
We need to keep the training set.
So here is why.
Right now, we are dealing with a specific user.
This ID user here, and we wanna to take
the input corresponding to that user.
And the input corresponding to that user is of course,
all the ratings of movies this user watched.
So that's our input vector.
We put this input vector into the network,
that is our auto encoder,
then the auto encoder will look at the ratings of the movies
and especially the positive ratings,
and based on these ratings, it will predict the ratings
of the movies that the user hasn't watched yet.
So, for example, if in our input vector our user
gave five star ratings to all the action movies he watched,
then when we feed this input vector into the network,
well, the new realms corresponding to the specific features
related to action movies,
will be activated with a large weight
to predict high ratings for the other
action movies that the user hasn't watched yet.
And then what we'll do, is we will compare
this predicted ratings to the ratings of the test set
because the test set contains these ratings
that were not part of the training set.
That is, these action movies
that the user hasn't watched yet, in the training set.
So you can see it this way,
the training set is like, the set that
contains all the ratings of the movies by this
specific user, up to a certain point in time.
Then we predict the ratings of the other movies
that the user hasn't watched yet,
and then we have the test set in the future
that contains the real answers,
like it contains the real ratings for these movies
that were not part of the training set.
And so then we compare these real ratings of the test set
to our predicted ratings,
and that's how we measure the loss.
And we are gonna do that of course,
for all the users, and that's why we have to take
this for loop here to loop over all the users.
So, that's a crucial thing to understand.
Here you have to keep training set,
because you are predicting the ratings of the movies
that the user hasn't watched yet,
and these movies are part of the training set.
Then in the future we have this test set,
that will therefore contain the real ratings
because in the future, the user will have watched
these movies, and so we can compare the real ratings
to the predicted ratings.
So that's the training set here,
and now let's compute the target.
The target is not a clone of the input,
but based on what we've just explained,
the target is of course the real ratings of the test set.
That is, the answer is in the future
when the user watches the movies.
So here, we don't take a clone of the input,
what we do is take variable of
not the training set,
but the test set
because the target contains the real answers.
All right, so we have our input, we have our target,
and now we need to make our predictions.
And the predictions happen right here
with this output equals S A E input.
So now new question,
Do we need to change something here?
Does it correspond to our predictions?
Well, based on what we've just explained,
of course it is.
These are our predictions because based on
the ratings of the movies the user watched
in the training set and gave ratings,
we are going to predict what's gonna happen for
the other movies that the user hasn't watched yet.
We are gonna predict the ratings of these other movies,
and this is exactly what this S A E input will do
because S A E contains our forward function
that returns the vector of predicted ratings
and therefore by calling our object on the input here,
we will get our vector of predicted ratings
for the movies that the user hasn't watched yet,
and this will go into output.
Then same, we use this to override the computations
of the gradient with respect to the target because
we don't need them, so that's the same as before.
Then we use this line of code to only consider the ratings
of the movies that are non-zero ratings in the test set
because target corresponds to the real ratings
in the test set, and we don't wanna measure the future loss
on these movies that didn't get any rating.
That makes sense.
We just wanna compute the error by comparing
the real ratings that took place and therefore are
between one star and five stars
to our predicted ratings returned by
our stacked auto encoders.
So that's still the same.
Then at the next line, we measure the loss between
the output that is our predicted ratings and the target
that is the real ratings of the test set.
So that's still the same.
Then we use this mean corrector that will still be the same
adjusting factor that will measure the relevant
loss on the test set.
So that's still the same.
We're doing that with respect to the ratings
that are non-zero ratings.
So we only consider the movies that were rated
in the test set, but then we have this line,
loss dot backward, and so now I have another question,
but a simple one.
The question is, Do we need to keep this line?
And the answer is, of course, no because
this is related to back propagation and back propagation
is related to the training, and by measuring
the test set loss, we are not updating any weight.
So we have to remove this because this is only
for the training, okay?
So then, next line.
Here we compute the loss accumulated with the user
we're dealing with right now, the loop.
So remember the loss starts at zero, then we compute
the area between the predicted rating and the real rating
for the first user, and so we add the generated loss
to this loss here.
So that becomes this loss related to the first user.
Then we do the same for the second user,
and we add the loss generated with the second user
to the loss generated with the first user,
and therefore we are incrementing at each step
of the for loop after each time
we feed a user to the network.
But here of course we need to replace
train loss by test loss
because we introduced our new variable
for the test loss as test loss, and I think that's all.
Here we don't have anything to change because
the mean corrector is based on our target
that is based on the test set, so that's fine,
and the loss data is based on this loss here,
which is based on the output and our target
that are correctly related to the test set.
So that's fine, and then at the next line,
we increment s by one, so again, that's only to consider
the users that gave at least one non-zero rating.
And finally we have our optimizer, and so now another
very simple question,
Do we need to keep this?
Well of course the answer is no again because
this is related to backward propagation
that is related to the training.
And finally last line of code where we print the loss
while here again, what we have to do is very clear.
There is no longer the epochs, so of course we need to
remove this, so here we go.
Here we remove the space because this was to put a space
between the number of epoch and the loss,
but here that's fine, okay.
So now we have this string loss
and then we'll get the result,
which is the loss of the test set.
So of course we need to replace train here by test
so that we get test loss that we divide by s
to get the average test loss over all the users
that gave at least one non-zero rating.
So here we go.
I think the code is done.
Let's check that there is no error.
No, everything seems to be correct.
Let's maybe specify that it's the test loss
to make it even more clear.
And now what we're gonna do is select all this section
and we're about to know if the challenge is successful,
that is if we manage to get a test loss that is
at least below one star.
If we manage to do this, that means that even for
new observations, observations that happen in the future,
that is movies that a user hasn't watched yet but will watch
in the future and provide rating.
Well, we're about to know if, on average, our model is
going to predict a rating that will be different from
the real rating by less than one star.
If we manage to do this, that means that
our recommended system will be pretty powerful
because it can predict for new movies
if basically you are going to like it or not.
So there we go, we're about to find out.
The test loss is
0.95, Bravo, perfect.
We built a robust recommended system.
The test loss is 0.95 stars, that is less than one star.
So for example if you're applying this recommended system
for the movie you're gonna watch tonight,
and let's say that after watching the movie
you give the rating four stars,
then this recommended system would predict that
you would give between three and five stars to this movie.
So in other words, it predict that you're likely
to like your movie.
Now it's time for the homework of this section
where the goal is to improve the model we've made here,
and to do that, you will learn how to manipulate
classes in object in Python, which is very important
and good of you to know how to master.
So good luck with that, and I hope you'll get
even better results than this one.
So I'll see you back with an even better model,
and until then, enjoy deep learning.